---
layout: distill
title: How to make lab meetings productive for everyone
description: Adam's principles on lab meeting in graduate school
tags: thought misc
date: 2024-09-09

authors:
  - name: Adam
    affiliations:
      name: Institute of Engineering Research, Seoul National University

toc:
  - name: Presenter
    subsections:
      - name: Basic Settings
      - name: Template
  - name: Audience
---

## Lab Meetings

Every graduate student may have memories of lab meetings.
(and may be preparing a meeting right now..)  
Here are some tips for successful lab meetings from my experience.  

---

## Presenter

Prepare your material according to ‘[scientific method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_method#Elements_of_inquiry)’ as much as possible!

### Basic Settings

Please don't just enumerate what you've done, and please stick to the time limit as if it were a conference presentation (25 minutes).
- Your & our time is gold.
- Human's concentration is limited. That’s why [Pomodoro technique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique) usually suggests 25 minutes timer.
- Please prepare your presentation seamlessly and carefully to make the lab meeting meaningful for everyone.
  - Take ownership: no one knows every detail of your work better than you.
 

### Template

#### I. Introduction

- Introduce a clear definition of the target problem.
- Give your lab mates a quick refresher on the topic you are working on and the importance of your work.

#### II. Observation & Background

- Introduce from where, and why you found it is really a "problem"?
  - Provide summaries of related works you have read & keywords used to find/define such works.
- Where can I find meaningful problems?
  - For Master students/industry-biased) you can find a problem from industries you are interested in (e.g., see the requirements sections in job postings!)
  - For Doctoral students/academy-biased) you can find a problem from papers, or by communicating with other researchers (e.g., conferences/twitters/reddits), or by cloning GitHub repo. of previous works and playing with them, ...
- Conducting a research is like "debugging codes" with other researchers around the world.
  - Without knowing what the previous bug is, (and whether it has already been fixed or not), any patches/updates are pointless…
  - Please DON'T <mark>"imagine"</mark> a research problem... You need to cross-check if there is agreement among other researchers that the problem you found is indeed a problem. (Before making PR, you make an issue first, innit?)
  - <mark>Please DON'T DON'T DON'T reinvent the wheel!!!</mark>

#### III. Hypothesis

- Provide the very point(s) that you'd like to make a progress on existing works.
- Please describe in a compact sentence containing core keywords.  
- It becomes the main thesis of the paper 

<b>Template</b>: [<font color='orange'>independent variable(s) / your idea</font>] will [<font color='green'>expected effect</font>] on [<font color='skyblue'>dependent variable / target field of interest</font>] in [<font color='violet'>specific condition / essential assumption</font>]

{% details Example) %}
[<font color='orange'><i>A server-side online convex optimization on mixing coefficients</i></font>] will [<font color='green'><i>induce better performance uniformity</i></font>] on [<font color='skyblue'><i>both cross-silo & cross-device federated learning</i></font>] in [<font color='violet'><i>a single model-based, honest server and reliable clients in federated setting</i></font>] (See [AAggFF (ICML`24)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20821) for more details)
{% enddetails %}

#### IV. Objective

- Summarize in <u>a compact sentence</u> what you have tried before a lab meeting.
- <b>Example</b>) To investigate FTRL framework can be adopted to federated setting even with client sampling.

#### V. Experimental Results

- Summarize your results in a sentence.
- Then, answer the following questions:
  - How and why did you design experiments to test your hypothesis?
  - What do the results imply about your hypothesis?

#### VI. Discussion

- Wrap-up your thoughts and provide future plans based on the hypothesis and corresponding results.
- Request critical feedback from your labmates.
  - Please be specific about what you'd like to discuss.

---

## Audience

Please think as if you are a (good) reviewer.
- There is no better guideline than [ICLR reviewer guideline](https://iclr.cc/Conferences/2024/ReviewerGuide#Reviewing%20instructions)
- Read the guideline thoroughly and try to help the presenter's work _to be acceptable_ to external researchers.
- Avoid attacking/criticizing the presenter, he/she is your lab mate!
